# Euler-Comer-Verlet
Numerical methods - Modeling Planetary Motions

Because of the formulation of Newton’s mechanics axioms, from the beginning of the 18th century, systematic and difficult problems arise, resistant to elementary methods of resolution. Mathematical physics provide a number of partial differential equations which can be reduced, by separating the variables, to ordinary differential equations. Two problems have particularly played a driving role for the development of new methods of processing differential equations: celestial mechanics and ballistics. Indeed, if the problem of the two bodies can be integrated by quadratures, it’s no longer the same as soon as we consider three bodies in gravitational interaction.
The development of the so-called Euler’s method, the great mathematician, made it possible to solve these partial differential equations in an approximate way with conditions at the edges of a well-defined set. The principle is based on a “step by step” resolution by building step by step the approximation of the solution starting from an initial value. By using this finite element method or more sophisticated of one sets up a discretization algorithm making it possible to obtain this approximate solution. We are therefore going to program in Python some classic numerical analysis algorithms. The goal is to solve physical problems frequently encountered in modeling, by trying to find an efficient method to determine a solution that can be used in practice (but approximated) to the given problem. Beside the theoretical part, we will try to evaluate the efficiency of the algorithms.
